
  ---
  HUNTED AKA "HOUSE AND HOME" — SCREENPLAY CRITIQUE

  Coverage Rating: STRONG CONSIDER

  ---
                    THE FOUR PILLARS

  1. CHARACTERS

  Liam — His VO narration in Act 1 is the strongest tool. The "skill vs luck" delusion gives him depth beyond generic
  serial killer. The hair bow hinting at a child
  victim is chilling. His warped self-image (comparing himself to Zaroff) creates dramatic irony since Zaroff loses. His
  VO personality is more interesting than his
  spoken personality — once the VO ends, his in-the-moment dialogue occasionally slides into action-movie generic
  ("Just... fucking... DIE," "Body armor, bitch!").
  His final act — blackbelt bandana, finger-guns, suicide-by-cop — is strong. He denies the system a trial, one last
  "challenge," one last delusion.

  Hank — The best-drawn character despite dying in Act 2. The Cabela's scene does enormous work: knife philosophy, the
  JFK quote, "It's not easy. It's just worth
  it." He earns the audience's investment before he's taken. Family Time cements it. His death feels hard-won and
  devastating. His legacy — the skills he taught, the
   house he built, even the blackbelt — haunts the rest of the film. Flat arc done right.

  Sarah — The core arc and the screenplay's real ambition. The darkness-always-there concept is excellent. Her flashback
  structure (past case, meeting Hank, bar
  fight, ultimatum, settled-but-not-cured) builds a complete portrait. The flash forward ("They never found who killed
  Hank") is a strong addition — it crystallizes
  her motivation and connects to the thematic question of "Where Does the Good Go." Her legal confrontation with
  detectives is sharp, specific dialogue. Her death is
   earned tragedy.

  Bobby — "Unky Buh-by" is the screenplay's best recurring motif. Establishes warmth in Act 1 (comic relief, dog
  rapport), pays off devastatingly when Liam mocks it
  in Act 3. Bobby and Girly dying together — her sliding into his outstretched arm — is the most emotionally powerful
  image in the script. The Bobby/Girly silent
  subtitle conversation is a bold tonal choice; it works if the audience is already invested in their bond.

  Eli — Functions well as the son who inherits Sarah's darkness. "You aren't a man" as dying words — strong. His death is
  earned (he opened the doors out of rage,
  the same impulse his mother couldn't control). The parallel to Sarah is clear without being stated.

  Emma and Olivia — They serve their thematic function (the sensible choice) but are somewhat interchangeable as
  individual characters. Emma has slightly more agency
   ("This is wrong. Dad taught us to defend ourselves, not... this" is the thematic voice of the film). Olivia is mostly
   reactive. Consider giving each one
  distinctive moment beyond their function.

  2. CONFLICT

  The three-phase conflict structure is excellent:
  - Liam vs Hank — worthy opponent, earned kill
  - Sarah vs Liam — investigation and apartment fight
  - Family vs Liam — the siege

  Stakes escalate cleanly. Each phase raises the personal cost. The escalating losses in Act 3 (Girly → Bobby → Eli →
  Sarah) create an almost unbearable momentum.
  The conflict resolution — a 911 call, not a final kill — is the thematic payoff done right.

  3. STRUCTURE

  Act 1 (Scenes 1-6): Efficient. VO carries setup without dragging. Cabela's is a strong inciting incident. Family Time
  is essential and well-placed — without it, we
   don't care. The "Let's do this" ending lands.

  Act 2 (Scenes 7-14): The strongest act. The Hank fight (7-8) is visceral, desperate, and earns every beat. The hostage
  exchange (9) sets up everything. The
  investigation (10-12) is methodical and believable. The apartment fight (13) is a strong midpoint escalation. The false
  identity twist (14) is clever and necessary
   — it explains why running won't work.

  Act 3 (Scenes 15-20): Relentless. Parallel preparation montage works. The siege is well-structured with each loss
  raising stakes. The ending lands the theme
  cleanly.

  Pacing: Generally strong. Act 3 is intense but may need a brief breathing beat after Bobby's death for the audience to
  process before Eli's death begins. Two major
   character deaths back-to-back risks emotional numbness rather than escalating impact.

  4. THEME

  Primary: Hunter becomes hunted — but revenge consumes as much as it protects.
  Secondary: Practicality vs drama — the children survive by choosing the unglamorous option.
  Tertiary: "Where does the good go?" — Hank as the anchor keeping Sarah human.

  Theme is integrated through action, not preaching. Emma's "Dad taught us to defend ourselves, not... this" is the
  thematic voice. The ending earns its irony —
  Sarah and Eli die because they chose to fight; Emma and Olivia survive because they called 911. The song motif deepens
  the Hank/Sarah relationship without being
  literal.

  ---
                    SPECIFIC ISSUES TO ADDRESS

  Critical

  1. Compiled screenplay is missing flashback sequences.
  Scenes 10, 11, and 12 have flashbacks in the individual scene files (past case, meeting Hank, Moxie's bar fight, the
  ultimatum, pregnant scenes, soccer game,
  homeschool, the flash forward) that don't appear in the compiled screenplay. These are CRITICAL to Sarah's arc. Without
  them, her transformation feels less earned.
   The screenplay needs to be recompiled.

  2. Scene 12 phone call is outdated in the compiled version.
  The scene file has been updated (Eli forces Sarah to call, she gets voicemail, withholds address) but the compiled
  version still shows a direct conversation with
  Martinez. Needs recompile.

  3. Sarah's occupation inconsistency.
  - main.txt / Sarah.txt: "Government lawyer"
  - Scene 10 compiled screenplay: "I was a public defender for eight years"
  - These are different roles. A public defender represents criminal defendants. Her backstory (domestic violence case
  where she warned cops about a killer) sounds
  more like a prosecutor or victim advocate. Pick one and make it consistent.

  4. Bar name inconsistency: O'Malley's vs Mulligan's.
  Scene 3: Liam tells Bobby he works at "O'Malley's." Scene 12: Bobby remembers "Mulligan's? Maybe?" This could be
  intentional (Liam lied, Bobby misremembers) but
  it's unclear. If Liam lied at Cabela's and really worked at Mulligan's, that's smart — but the audience needs to track
  it. If Bobby is just misremembering, that
  works too, but it's a coincidence that he gets close to the right bar. Clarify.

  Moderate

  5. Emma's .22 rifle.
  All firearms were seized in Scene 10. Bobby gave ONE gun to Sarah. In Scene 16, Emma grabs "her .22 RIFLE" to shoot the
  drone. Where did it come from? Needs a line
   or beat addressing this — hidden, not found during seizure, from Bobby's truck, etc.

  6. When did Liam take Hank's blackbelt?
  Hank uses it as a tourniquet in Scene 8. Liam has it in Scene 15. Presumably he took it from the body, but this isn't
  shown. A quick beat would fix it.

  7. The 24-hour timeline.
  Liam wrote "CYA TONIGHT." The parallel preparation montage suggests ~24 hours. Liam has injuries from the Hank fight
  AND the apartment fight, yet he builds armor
  and returns. This strains believability. Consider either extending the timeline slightly or acknowledging that his
  rushing back is desperate and reckless (which
  fits his character).

  Minor

  8. Eli's "TWO MEN ENTER! ONE MAN LEAVES!"
  This feels like a different movie's dialogue — more action-movie than grounded thriller. It does pay off when Liam
  throws it back at him ("The one who wouldn't let
   me leave. 'Two men enter, one man leaves.' Remember?"). But the initial line may break tone. Consider whether Eli
   would actually say this or something more
  raw/less referential.

  9. Liam's suicide-by-cop ending.
  Thematically strong — he treats death as one final challenge, denies the system. But it could read as Liam "winning."
  Given the theme that the sensible choice
  beats the dramatic one, his dramatic exit works as one final delusion. Just be aware some audiences may feel cheated
  that he avoids trial. The girls watching is
  the counterpoint — they chose the system, and it worked.

  10. Sarah putting the gun down then having it later.
  She puts Bobby's gun on the counter in Scene 11 ("I won't be needing this"). She presumably picks it up after the false
  identity reveal. She has it in Scene 16.
  The custody of this gun should be made slightly more explicit during the transition to Act 3.

  ---
                    WHAT WORKS BEST

  - The structural inversion (hunter → hunted → hunter) across three acts
  - Hank and Bobby's voices — warm, real, specific
  - "Unky Buh-by" as a motif that shifts from warmth to devastation
  - Bobby and Girly together in death
  - Sarah's flashback structure revealing the darkness was always there
  - The flash forward as the crystallizing moment
  - The thematic irony of the ending — earned, not mocking
  - "Where Does the Good Go" as thematic shorthand for the whole Hank/Sarah dynamic
  - Liam's VO worldview — the "skill vs luck" delusion
  - The false identity twist — clever, believable, and necessary for plot mechanics

  ---
                    RECOMMENDATION

  Recompile the screenplay with all flashback sequences included, resolve the continuity issues (occupation, bar name,
  gun tracking), and this is a tight,
  thematically rich thriller. The bones are strong. The character work — particularly Sarah's arc and the Bobby/Girly
  emotional core — elevates it above genre. The
  ending is the kind of sharp irony that stays with an audience.

